♪ Opening Song ♪
[NARRATOR] They dwell,
unseen, in the shadows...
A host of creatures
completely different
from the flora and fauna
familiar to us--
an invisible world
of life within our own.
Since the dawn of humanity,
these phantoms
have inspired fear
in those who could
not understand,
and have over the ages
come to be known as "mushi."
[door creaks]
[rustling]
[BIKI]
Good morning, Sui.
Good morning...
...Biki.
[BIKI]
How are you feeling today?
Do your eyes still hurt?
[SUI]
Listen. Biki...
[BIKI]
Hm?
[SUI]
I wanna tell you a secret.
It's about my disease.
I know what's causing it.
[BIKI gasps]
[SUI]
I can feel them, you know?
Swimming around.
Mushi...
...living inside my eyes.
[BIKI] My cousin Sui is the
youngest member of our family.
About six months ago,
she contracted a disease
that made her eyes
sensitive to light.
[BIKI]
It was a mystery.
[BIKI] None of the eye
doctors could figure out
the cause of her illness.
And before they could
find a way to treat her,
Sui's eyes became so sensitive
that even the smallest
amount of light
would cause her great pain.
[BIKI] When there was
nothing they could do,
her parents brought
her to my house,
since we have a sturdy storage
shed that blocks out light.
They said it was for Sui's own
good that they left her here.
But to me, it seemed more
like they had given up--
like they were abandoning her.
Did you know we have
another eyelid?
A second one,
behind our outer eyelid.
[BIKI gasps]
[SUI]
Between them...
...there's a place where no
outside light can ever get in.
That's where the mushi live.
[BIKI]
Between your eyelids?
[SUI]
That's right.
Don't you know how to
close your second eyelid?
It's easy. I'll show you.
First, close your eyes.
[BIKI]
Mm.
[SUI]
Do you see anything?
Mm... Nuh-uh.
Not a thing.
Oh! Hold on.
I can still see some
kind of flickering.
Inside my eye.
[SUI]
That's right.
Even after you
close your eyes...
...you're still looking at
the backs of your eyelids.
Your eyes aren't really closed.
So that's why...
...if I ever want to make it
where I see nothing at all...
All I do... is close
my eyes again...
...to shut out the flickering.
[SUI] That's when a
curtain of darkness falls,
and it becomes
truly pitch black.
[BIKI grunts]
Sorry, I can't do it.
You can't?
Well, it's easy for me.
[footsteps]
[BIKI chuckles]
[SUI giggles]
[BOTH laughing]
[BIKI] When I visit Sui,
we play together in the dark.
[BIKI]
Even though I can't see anything
when I first step
into the shed...
...after a while,
as my eyes adjust...
...the outlines of shapes
gradually begin to appear.
--[rattling]
--[thumping]
[BIKI]
How do you do that?
It's almost like
you can see the ball.
[SUI]
It's because of the light--
a whole river of light
that runs underground.
[BIKI gasps]
[SUI] You can see it whenever
you close your second eyelid.
If you keep staring long enough
into the true darkness...
[SUI] After a while, you
start to see specks of light,
off in the distance, that
slowly form into a river.
[SUI]
If you're very still,
you can see that the specks of
light are actually tiny mushi.
But... whenever I try to go
closer to get a better look...
[GINKO]
Stop.
Be careful. Don't get
too close to the river.
A man is there that
I've never met before.
He only has one eye.
He sits on the other
side of the river,
and he always tells
me the same thing.
So I just look at the
river from a distance...
...instead of going in.
[BIKI]
I try to understand,
but the more I think
about it, it worries me.
[groans]
[door creaking]
[BIKI]
The strange things that Sui sees
when she closes her eyes--
The lights... that man...
[BIKI]
What in the world could they be?
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
Biki...
You're spending way too
much time inside that shed.
It's okay, I burned the eye
bandages just like you told me.
And I washed my hands
and all the dishes, so--
[BIKI'S MOTHER sobs]
[BIKI gasps]
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
Biki...
I still worry.
I just couldn't bear it
if you got infected, too.
But it's not fair...
She's alone. She's already been
abandoned by everyone else.
So if I don't go...
You're right, Darling.
It isn't fair to her...
She's a good girl.
It's not her fault
this happened.
I'll just have to try
to set my worries aside.
[BIKI'S MOTHER] Keep being
a friend to her, Biki,
so she doesn't lose the
light in her heart as well.
But please...
Please, whatever you do...
Don't let yourself get
infected with her disease.
[gasps] Really?
[SUI]
You're coming...?
Here...?
[rustling]
[cracking]
[groans]
--[thump]
--[BIKI grunts]
What's going on? What was that?
[BIKI]
Don't tell me...
Oh no...
[BIKI]
Oh, Mom...
I'm sorry...
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
Biki?
Come on! Get up,
your breakfast is--
[gasps]
[BIKI whimpering]
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
Biki!
[door rattles, creaks]
[scraping]
Biki...?
Is that you?
[clinking]
[SUI]
Is something wrong?
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
I'm sorry...
Biki...
He... won't be coming back.
[SUI gasps]
[BIKI'S MOTHER] He's caught
your illness... whatever it is.
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
I know you didn't mean it...
It's not your fault.
It's my fault for
feeling sorry for you.
[gasps]
[BIKI'S MOTHER]
Who's there?!
If you leave the door open,
Biki's eyes will--
[GINKO]
It's okay...
Don't worry, he's fine.
[GINKO] I've dealt with
cases like his before.
[GINKO]
I gave him some medicine
and something to
help with the pain.
I know you meant well,
but leaving him in the dark
will only make the
disease progress faster.
Now wait just a second.
Who are you?
Oh...
Right, sorry 'bout that.
I'm a mushi master. Ginko.
I'm actually here
because I heard about
the girl you have
locked in your shed.
[GINKO]
The eye doctors
couldn't help her with
her condition, could they?
But I think I can.
[gasps] Are you telling me...
You can cure my son?
Well, since he was
so recently infected,
the medicine alone
should be enough.
And if we're lucky,
a few hours' sleep and
he'll be as good as new.
[fluttering]
[SUI]
Biki...
I'm sorry...
[SUI]
I'm sorry!
[BIKI]
Sui!
[GINKO]
So, you're awake.
[BIKI]
Huh?
Are your eyes
still bothering you?
[BIKI]
Uh-uh.
Good... Then it worked.
[GINKO]
The cause of Sui's illness is
the darkness of manakomushi.
They multiply in the dark.
You spent too much time
with Sui out in that shed.
Wait... You mean you know Sui?
[BIKI]
Could he be the one?
Whenever I close
my second eyelid...
She's there by the river...
[BIKI gasps]
[GINKO]
The light that river gives off
is very different from
ordinary earthlight.
It can poison the eye if
you look at it too closely.
[BIKI]
No, he has both of his eyes...
He can't be the one-eyed
man Sui told me about.
I'll begin Sui's treatment
tonight, after the sun sets.
[BIKI]
Okay...
[door creaks]
[GINKO gasps]
Sui...
No, you didn't...
Dammit, I told you not
to go into the river.
[door creaks]
Oh, Sui...
Sui's eyeballs are both dead.
[BIKI gasps]
But I'll try to do
something for her if I can.
If you close your second
eyelid for too long...
Eventually, your eyeballs are
consumed by the darkness.
[GINKO]
Are you ready, Sui?
We're going to use the moonlight
to chase out the mushi.
Now, keep your second
eyelid closed...
And slowly, open your eyes.
That's right, come on out.
There's light out here, mushi.
[BIKI gasps]
[GINKO]
There!
Sui! Now! Close your
eyes! Quickly!
[GINKO]
That should do it.
Now then... let's see what
we can do about her eyes.
Those were mushi!
She was telling me
the truth all along!
There really were
mushi in there!
[GINKO] Her eyes have
been completely devoured.
I don't know if this
will work, but...
[BIKI gasps]
[GINKO]
I'll try giving her this.
[BIKI gasping]
[GINKO] You know, you can
stop freaking out now.
You're gonna faint
if you're not careful.
Come on, it's just a glass eye.
[GINKO]
This is some of the liquid mushi
we saw a minute ago.
If I inject this
into the glass eye,
it should turn into
a functioning eyeball.
Say, um... Can I
ask you something?
This "river of light"
you mentioned
that the two of you
say you can see...
Well, what is it, exactly?
[NARRATOR] Try now, if you can,
to close your second eyelid.
[GINKO]
What do you mean?
Are you saying that
you've forgotten?
[NARRATOR]
Only then will the path
to true darkness be revealed...
[GINKO]
You, too, could see it once...
...in the past.
[NARRATOR]
From the time that man
first emerged into the light,
it is said that he forgot how
to close his second eyelid.
[NARRATOR]
However...
...this development was
perhaps for the best.
[NARRATOR]
For before that time,
many a man had lost his sight
from staring too long into the
underground river of light.
[NARRATOR]
The second eyelid...
True darkness...
Alien light...
[NARRATOR] Each of these
names refers to the sea
of infinite life forms,
swimming beneath our feet.
[BIKI]
Suddenly, there was a big flash
that lit up
everything around us.
And then we were
plunged into darkness.
It felt like the ground
fell out beneath me,
and I thought I could
see a river of light
flowing far down below...
[BIKI]
It was only for a second,
after the mushi master
gave you the glass eye...
[BIKI]
But it was so beautiful...
I felt as though I was
being pulled into it.
I wanted to stare
at it forever...
[door slides]
[SUI]
I'm ready.
[BIKI] Sui was finally able
to come out of the shed.
She's so happy now.
She spends her time admiring
the trees and the flowers
in the sunlight.
I don't think
she'll ever be tempted
to look for that strange
light in the darkness again.
[BIKI]
I never did ask him,
but I wonder if the mushi
master lost his real eye
the same way Sui did.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Tender Horns."